---
layout: post
title: "The Start"
date: 2019-11-10
---

## Welcome!
Hey everyone! My name is Ivy Z, and this is Zhang Limit Exceeded, a clever
play on words and also the name of the blog. This blog serves the dual purpose
of self documenting my goal of hitting 2000 on CodeForces in 1 year whilst
hopefully teaching people along the way. For this first post, I'll be sharing
some advice I got from some of the best along with my current training regiment.

## Advice From The Greats
Before tackling this challenge, I contacted some top players for tips on how to
go about practicing and here's what they had to say. (Don't worry, I didn't just
ask the typical "how to cp better, plz help" sort of questions)

> The three questions I asked were: What single factor helped you push through
> common rating plateaus (1400, 1900, etc.) when you were starting out, what
> myth or misconception about improving in CP do you think is most damaging, and
> if you were to go back and start your CP journey all over again, what are the
> top two things you would change about the way you practiced or your routines? 

The common theme when looking at the answers isn't too surprising: practice.
One response I got was even: 

> Practice, there's more than practice, not practicing enough.

But I'd argue like the majority of masters that there's more than just
practice. It takes **deliberate, targetted** practice to truly improve. That
means not only being fully focused while practicing but also maintaining a fine
balance between practice with what you struggle with and solving random problems
to get better at recognition. So if you struggle with dynamic programming, go
ahead and study it, but make sure you don't only study that one topic.

## Training Regiment
I've done a lot of research before jumping into this challenge so here is a
quick run down on my routine. If you'd like to see some sources I used, the
links will be at the bottom of the section. Although I haven't done any live
contests as they're usually at 5 am or during school, I'd put a rough estimate
of my rating as 1400CF with about 50 deviation. The main two sites I'm using to
practice are AtCoder and CodeForces. On AtCoder I do the ABC contests, problems
B-D in 6 problem ones and B-C in the older 4 problem contests. The pros of
AtCoder are the high quality questions and an easily navagatible website to
track your progress [here](https://kenkoooo.com/atcoder#/table/); whereas, the
cons would be the lack of English editorials for a majority of contests and
problems not having tags. These are negligible if you are part of a CP community
where you can find stronger programmers to help you when you're stuck so don't
worry too much. For CodeForces, I use the ladders on [a2oj](https://a2oj.com/)
to find keystone problems I'll need to understand to move into the next 100
rating bracket. These are often classic problems in areas like dp or graphs and
help introduce you to new concepts or expose weaknesses very effectively. I
might need to use other online judges/contest sites in the future, but for now,
these two are serving me well. 

Solving problems alone isn't enough to learn quickly so here are some other
things I do too. I keep a journal of all the questions that I couldn't solve by
myself and try them again after at least a week. This is my primitive
implementation of spaced repetition to truly make sure I take something away
from each problem. The system is to keep doing that problem until breaking it
apart and solving it becomes second nature. It's also key to me that write down
my thinking process and reflection of each attempt to quickly spot gaps. If I do
encounter a new topic or find a weakness in my knowledge, that becomes my new
area of focus.  This usually entails solving problems tagged with it on CF,
reading articles, and watching videos until my mastery of that problem is good
enough to move onto the next bracket.

I just want to make it very clear that this is my training regiment for this
moment in time, and it'll probably change as I (hopefully) start climbing the
ladder. Future changes and adaptations will be covered in a later blog though,
so be sure to keep watch :D

### Links
- [Book Guide by E869120](https://u.teknik.io/3yVBr.pdf)
- [BenQ Resources](https://github.com/bqi343/USACO/tree/master/Resources)

## The End
I just want to thank everyone that read this first post. I have no idea how you
found it, and why're you're reading it (like seriously, why), but thanks :)!
Come back next week where I'll be writing about my first rated contest and tips
for performing better during contests. Cheers!
